Deadlines How-to (#2811)
AxonFramework/AxonFramework: docs/af-fundamentals-tutorial/modules/deadlines/pages/implementing.adoc

= Implementing Deadlines
:navtitle: Add a handler

> As the `SimpleDeadlineManager` is included in the messaging module of Axon framework, and uses Java's `ScheduledExecutorService` no additional dependencies are needed to use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the `SimpleDeadlineManager` is included in the messaging module of Axon framework, and uses Java's `ScheduledExecutorService`, no additional dependencies are needed to use it.
```

The `SimpleDeadlineManager` can be added both as an Axon Configuration component, or as a Spring Bean.
For this howto we will configure it as a Spring Bean.

[source,java]
----
@Bean
public DeadlineManager deadlineManager(
        org.axonframework.config.Configuration configuration
) {
    var provider = new ConfigurationScopeAwareProvider(configuration);
    return SimpleDeadlineManager
            .builder()
            .scopeAwareProvider(provider)
            .build();
}
----

> There are some additional things that could be set.

Reviewer: What do you mean here with 'things'? I would rather refer to it as configuration or something

    @CommandHandler
    @CreationPolicy(AggregateCreationPolicy.CREATE_IF_MISSING)
    public void handle(IssueExpiringCardCommand command, DeadlineManager deadlineManager) { // <1>
        //check validity
        apply(new ExpiringCardIssuedEvent(command.id(), command.daysValid(), command.amount()));
        Instant trigger = Instant.now().plus(command.daysValid(), ChronoUnit.DAYS).truncatedTo(ChronoUnit.DAYS);
        deadlineManager.schedule(trigger, EXPIRED_GIFT_CARD); // <2>
    }

    @DeadlineHandler(deadlineName = EXPIRED_GIFT_CARD) // <3>
    public void on() {
        if (!expired){ //<4>
            apply(new ExpiringCardExpiredEvent(giftCardId));
        }
    }

    @EventSourcingHandler
    public void on(ExpiringCardIssuedEvent event) {
        giftCardId = event.id();
        expired = false;
    }

    @EventSourcingHandler // <5>
    public void on(ExpiringCardExpiredEvent event) {
        expired = true;
    }

    // More handlers are needed to make it useful, left out for brevity.

    public ExpiringGiftCard() {
        // Required by Axon to construct an empty instance to initiate Event Sourcing.
    }
}
----

> <1> Adding the deadline manager to the method makes it easily testable compared to other ways of accessing it from the aggregate.

Reviewer: I don't think there *is* any other way, right? 
It would be nice to explain here that Axon Framework injects this from the Spring Context or Configuration, so we can use it

Author: You can `Autowire` them on the aggregate or saga, but in that case they are not testable with fixtures. Or use any other dependency injection, but it would be compatible with the test fixture. I'll ad we can inject from either the axon configuration or spring context.

<2> We schedule the deadline, so it will trigger at the end of day.

> <3> It's important to use the same name, in this case the deadline does not contain a payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> It's important to use the same in the annotation as when calling the schedule method.
```

Author: Changed

> <4> We do a check so even if there is some problem with the deadline manager, we still only send one `ExpiringCardExpiredEvent` event

Reviewer: I would leave this one out I think, or call it an idempotency check
